README.md, before:

# 2020 DSSxAMEX Online Hackathon

> Version `0.1.0`

## Author

***Zhaoxuan “Tony” Wu***

Head of _Science_, UCL Data Science Society

## Schedule

17 August ~ 6 September

## Theme

The teams are expected to propose any ***FinTech*** solutions and implement a *Proof of Concept* or *Technical Deliverable* (a *Working Prototype*) of that particular solution. There are no designated APIs or technologies required in the solutions.

> In order to motivate the players to approach the problem from different angles, I decided to keep the problem as generic and as open as possible, which is ***“FinTech”*** in general.

## Challenges and Prizes

There are ***four*** challenges apart from ***the Grand Prize*** of the hack that each team can apply to one of those: 

- ***Best UI Design***

- ***Best Hardware Hack***

- ***Best Data Science Solution***
- ***Best Business Solution***

There will be ***one*** winner from each challenge. There is no upper limit for the number of applicants accepted to a challenge. The number of applicants to the challenges will be published to all to promote teams to apply to those challenges with fewer competitors.

### Best UI Design

The user interface design that delivers the best user experiences and the most favourable visual presentation of the content, for examples: 

- colour scheme
- compatibility of devices
- user interaction
- user journey
- ...

### Best Hardware Hack

The best hardware prototype that implements a FinTech solution. Recommended devices/platforms include:

- Raspberry Pi
- Arduino Boards
- PCB
- ESP Boards
- Android Phones
- ...

> ***Note that***: the Hackathon Committee is not able to provide any hardware or devices to the players

### Best Data Science Solution

A solution implemented with data science techniques that shows high business value, reasonable encapsulation, easy-to-use, robust performances, plausible scalability and so on.

### Best Business Solution

A solution/proposal/initiative that presents high business value?

> @TODO: need help here

### The Grand Prize

The committee will assess all solutions regardless of the challenges applied to and select 5 teams as finalists (or 3, depending on the number of teams). The finalists get to present to AMEX on 14 September to compete for the ***Grand Prize*** of Hackathon.

## Logistics

### Communication

The committee will create a _Slack_ channel for the hackathon. Channels include:

- team-forming
- committee
- announcement
- mentor/help desk
- team private channels
- sponsors?
- ...

Video conferrencing will be conducted on *Zoom*

> @Scott: can you confirm which platform we will use for video conf? Considering the cost and availablity to it in different countries and regions (e.g. Google is not available in mainland China)

### Events

> @TODO: technical workshops(intro to Python, intro to React, ...) and AMEX career fairs?
>
> @Scott: will AMEX host any events throughout the hack?

### Mentorship

The _Science_ team and some society members from the committee will work as the mentor team to the players. The mentor team is an on-demand specialist team that usually operates at the **mentorship/help desk** channel for quick Q&A, tips, inspiration or consultancy. If a team requires extra help in a particular area (technical or non-technical), a mentor will be assigned to that team temporarily.

> The mentors are expected to provide assistance in the high-level concepts/structure of solutions, rather than the low-level implementations. Mentorship team is not a ***debugging hotline***

### Code of Conduct

> @TODO

### Committee and Organisation

> @TODO

## Submission

There will be a few deadlines for the teams to submit products based on an Agile approach. The deadlines are not mandatory but a way to motivate the teams to exercise good project management practice and Agile development methodology, making sure an MVP (***“Minimal Viable Product”***) is available and updated regularly and ensuring the committee members and mentors to be farmiliar with their projects. DDLs include:

|                          Product                           |        Deadline         |      |
| :--------------------------------------------------------: | :---------------------: | ---- |
|                      Project Proposal                      |        19 August        |      |
|                      Product Commits                       | 20 August ~ 6 September |      |
|             Presentation Keynotes First Draft              |       2 September       |      |
| Presentation Keynotes Final Draft and Product Final Commit |       5 September       |      |
|                        Presentation                        |       6 September       |      |

### Commits and Code Base

The code must be managed by _Git_ and hosted on _GitHub_ as a **public** repository. The players get to choose to be licensed under whichever protocol and choose if they want to be licensed or not.

> The developers are expected to follow the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org) convention and [Git branching strateg](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/git-branching-guidance?view=azure-devops).

The ***latest release*** of that repository will be consider as the final submission on 5 September

> The developers are expected to create and manage [releases](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/managing-releases-in-a-repository) on GitHub

### README

Each repository should come with a `README.md` that states the details, environment, ***quick-start guide*** and information of this such. 

### `.gitignore`

- Ignore production environment settings (`.vscode` or `.idea`)
- Ignore complied code/cache for interpretation-based language (e.g. `.pyc` for _Python_)
- Ignore `node_modules/`
- Ignore OS-related config (`.DS_Store`)

- Ignore sensitive information(e.g. private keys, database/API credentials, tokens)
- Ignore anything unneccesary for using the technical deliverables

### Technology

The players can claim the _GitHub_ student pack to get free access to many paid features. Apart from that, the committee will not be able to provide any technological resources(like databases, servers, domain names)

> `github.io` is recommended as a domian name service

> @Scott: will AMEX reimburse expenses for renting those resources? 

> @TO BE DICUSSED: publish the hackathon on _DevPost_?

Commit message:

Implement changes required by Scott

README.md, after:

# 2020 DSSxAMEX Online Hackathon

> Version `0.1.1`

[toc]

## Author

***Zhaoxuan “Tony” Wu***

Head of _Science_, UCL Data Science Society

## Schedule

17 August ~ 6 September

## Theme

The teams are expected to propose any ***FinTech*** solutions and implement a *Proof of Concept* or *Technical Deliverable* (a *Working Prototype*) of that particular solution. There are no designated APIs or technologies required in the solutions.

> In order to motivate the players to approach the problem from different angles, I decided to keep the problem as generic and as open as possible, which is ***“FinTech”*** in general.

## Challenges and Prizes

There are ***four*** challenges apart from ***the Grand Prize*** of the hack that each team can apply to one of those: 

- ***Best UI Design***

- ***Best Hardware Hack***

- ***Best Data Science Solution***
- ***Best Business Solution***

There will be ***one*** winner from each challenge. There is no upper limit for the number of applicants accepted to a challenge. The number of applicants to the challenges will be published to all to promote teams to apply to those challenges with fewer competitors.

### Best UI Design

The user interface design that delivers the best user experiences and the most favourable visual presentation of the content, for examples: 

- colour scheme
- compatibility of devices
- user interaction
- user journey
- ...

### Best Hardware Hack

The best hardware prototype that implements a FinTech solution. Recommended devices/platforms include:

- Raspberry Pi
- Arduino Boards
- PCB
- ESP Boards
- Android Phones
- ...

> ***Note that***: the Hackathon Committee is not able to provide any hardware or devices to the players

### Best Data Science Solution

A solution implemented with data science techniques that shows high business value, reasonable encapsulation, easy-to-use, robust performances, plausible scalability and so on.

### Best Business Solution

A solution/proposal/initiative that presents high business value?

> @AMEX: We hope that American Express can guide us a guideline as to picking out the best business solution

### The Grand Prize

The committee will assess all solutions regardless of the challenges applied to and select 5 teams as finalists (or 3, depending on the number of teams). The finalists get to present to AMEX on 14 September to compete for the ***Grand Prize*** of Hackathon.

>   ***Note that***: a Grand Prize winner **does not** have to be a winner or runner up in other challenges. 

## Logistics

### Size of a Team

A maximum of 4 players on a team. Individual players are welcomed and there will be team-forming sessions

### Communication

The committee will create a _Slack_ channel for the hackathon. Channels include:

- team-forming
- committee
- announcement
- mentor/help desk
- team private channels
- sponsors?
- ...

Video conferrencing will be conducted on *Zoom*

### Events

> @TODO: technical workshops(intro to Python, intro to React, ...) and AMEX career fairs?
>

### Mentorship

The _Science_ team and some society members from the committee will work as the mentor team to the players. The mentor team is an on-demand specialist team that usually operates at the **mentorship/help desk** channel for quick Q&A, tips, inspiration or consultancy. If a team requires extra help in a particular area (technical or non-technical), a mentor will be assigned to that team temporarily.

> The mentors are expected to provide assistance in the high-level concepts/structure of solutions, rather than the low-level implementations. Mentorship team is not a ***debugging hotline***

### Code of Conduct

> @TODO

### Committee and Organisation

> @TODO

## Submission

There will be a few deadlines for the teams to submit products based on an Agile approach. The deadlines are not mandatory but a way to motivate the teams to exercise good project management practice and Agile development methodology, making sure an MVP (***“Minimal Viable Product”***) is available and updated regularly and ensuring the committee members and mentors to be farmiliar with their projects. DDLs include:

|                          Product                           |        Deadline         |      |
| :--------------------------------------------------------: | :---------------------: | ---- |
|                      Project Proposal                      |        19 August        |      |
|                      Product Commits                       | 20 August ~ 6 September |      |
|             Presentation Keynotes First Draft              |       2 September       |      |
| Presentation Keynotes Final Draft and Product Final Commit |       5 September       |      |
|                        Presentation                        |       6 September       |      |

### Commits and Code Base

The code must be managed by _Git_ and hosted on _GitHub_ as a **public** repository. The players get to choose to be licensed under whichever protocol and choose if they want to be licensed or not.

> The developers are expected to follow the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org) convention and [Git branching strategy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/git-branching-guidance?view=azure-devops).

The ***latest release*** of that repository will be consider as the final submission on 5 September

> The developers are expected to create and manage [releases](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/managing-releases-in-a-repository) on GitHub

### README

Each repository should come with a `README.md` that states the details, environment, ***quick-start guide*** and information of this such. 

### `.gitignore`

- Ignore production environment settings (`.vscode` or `.idea`)
- Ignore complied code/cache for interpretation-based language (e.g. `.pyc` for _Python_)
- Ignore `node_modules/`
- Ignore OS-related config (`.DS_Store`)

- Ignore sensitive information(e.g. private keys, database/API credentials, tokens)
- Ignore anything unneccesary for using the technical deliverables

### Technology

The players can claim the _GitHub_ student pack to get free access to many paid features. Apart from that, the committee will not be able to provide any technological resources(like databases, servers, domain names)

> `github.io` is recommended as a domian name service

> @TO BE DICUSSED: publish the hackathon on _DevPost_?
